---
order: 900
icon: dot-fill
label: Messages
author:
  name: Robbe
  avatar: https://cdn.discordapp.com/attachments/1034201179716079777/1084940308686589992/Robbe.png
tags: [module]
---

Greetings! Welcome to the Messages feature, a powerful tool that allows you to edit, create, and manage Sapphire's messages. Whether you need to customize default messages, apply message kits created by other users, or create your own templates, this guide will show you how to get started.

---

Default messages are messages that Sapphire sends by default, including logs, errors, and messages generated by the system or commands. You can modify these messages by navigating to the Messages module and selecting "Default messages". From there, you can customize any default message to your liking.

Message kits are packs of edited messages created by other users. They can include changes such as translations or general alterations. To apply a message kit, simply copy the kit's link, click on the "Message Kits" button, select "Load Kit", and paste the link. You can find a list of user-created message kits in #message-kits.

Templates, or custom messages, are a great way to send unique messages based on specific keywords, add buttons or select menus, and even send messages that only you can see. Many users use templates to create informative messages and announcements. To create your own template, enter a name in the search field and click the blue "Create" button.

When editing a template, you'll be brought to the preview tab by default, which lets you view your template without making any changes. However, note that the preview tab might not always show formatting accurately. The edit tab has three more tabs: Visual, Raw, and Variables. The Visual tab lets you fully customize your message, including the addition of embeds, select menus, and buttons. The Raw tab lets you edit your template through the raw code, while the Variables tab lists all available variables for the message, including some settings.

Finally, the Use tab lets you send messages in the selected channel, edit messages using a message link, schedule messages to send regularly, or automate messages based on specific keywords.

In addition, you can use the s!send command to send messages. By editing the "sendmessagecommand" message, you can decide if these messages should be sent through a webhook or not. You can also add additional styling with embeds, select menus, buttons, or text that should always appear.